Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. Use of appropriate data structure enables a computer system to perform its task more efficiently,
by influencing the ability of computer to store and retrieve data from any location in its memory.


What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A.Creation
Insertion
Traversal
Search
Sorting
Merging
Updating
Deletion

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A.Compiler Design,
  Operating System,
  Database Management System,
  Statistical analysis package,
  Numerical Analysis,
  Graphics,
  Artificial Intelligence,
  Simulation.

what is an Array?
A.An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
A.difference between Array and ArrayList in Java is that Array is a fixed length data structure,
ArrayList is a variable length Collection class.
we can not use Generics along with Array,
ArrayList allows us to use Generics to ensure type-safety.


what is LinkedList?
A.Linked List is a part of the Collection framework present in java. util package.
This class is an implementation of the LinkedList data structure which is a linear data structure
where the elements are not stored in contiguous locations and every element is a separate object
with a data part and address part.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
A.Array is a collection of elements of similar data type.
Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of same type, which are connected to each other using pointers.
Array supports Random Access, which means elements can be accessed directly using their index,

what is queue?
A.Java Queue is an interface available in java. util package and extends java.Collection interface.
Java Queue is a collection of ordered elements (Or objects) We can use Queue to store elements before processing those elements.

what is stack?
A.A Stack is a Last In First Out (LIFO) data structure. It supports two basic operations called push and pop.
The push operation adds an element at the top of the stack, and the pop operation removes an element from the top of the stack.

what is FIFO and LIFO?
A.FIFO is an abbreviation for first in, first out.
It is a method for handling data structures where the first element is processed first and the newest element is processed last.
LIFO is an abbreviation for Last in, first out


what is the order of complexity?
A.it is a certain mathematical expression of the size of the input, and the algorithm finishes between two factors of it.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
A.If the array is sorted, we can use Binary Search. If it is not, we have to use sequential search

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
A.The worst case to search an element from an array is when the element we are searching for is the last element in the array.
In this case, we will iterate N times before we find the element.

what is tree in data structure?
A.A Tree is a non-linear data structure where data objects are organized in terms of hierarchical relationship.

what is graph in data structure?
A.A graph in data structure is for storing connected data.
A graph consists of vertices and edges.
A vertex represents the entity and an edge represents the relationship between entities

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
A.HashMap is non synchronized. It is not-thread safe and can't be shared between many threads without proper synchronization code,
 Hashtable is synchronized.
 HashMap allows one null key and multiple null values,
 Hashtable doesn't allow any null key or value

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
A.RDBMS = Array
  Network data model = Graph
  Hierarchical data model = Trees

How HashMap works in java?
A.HashMap in Java works on hashing principles.
It is a data structure which allows us to store object and retrieve it in constant time

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
A.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is thrown to indicate that we are trying to access array element with an illegal index.
 This exception is thrown when the index is either negative or greater than or equal to the size of the array.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
A.There are multiple ways to copy elements from one array to another.
example : create a clone of the array, use Arrays. copyOf() method or
System. arrayCopy() to start copying elements from one array to another

What is difference between an array and a linked list?
A.An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.
Linked List is an ordered collection of elements of the same type in which each element is connected to the next using pointers.

What is DFS and BFS?
A.BFS (Breadth First Search). DFS (Depth First Search).
BFS(Breadth First Search) uses Queue data structure for finding the shortest path.
DFS(Depth First Search) uses Stack data structure.

What is Recursion?
A.Recursion is the technique of making a function (method) call itself.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
A.In a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every elements are attached to its previous and next adjacent.
  In a non-linear data structure, data elements are attached in hierarchically manner.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
A.big O notation is used to classify algorithms according to how their run time or space requirements grow as the input size grows

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
A.Algorithm	                Time Complexity
                        Best	Average 	Worst

  Selection Sort	    Ω(n^2)	θ(n^2)	    O(n^2)
  Bubble Sort	        Ω(n)	θ(n^2)	    O(n^2)
  Insertion Sort	    Ω(n)	θ(n^2)	    O(n^2)
  Heap Sort	        Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))
  Quick Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	O(n^2)
  Merge Sort	    Ω(n log(n))	θ(n log(n))	O(n log(n))
  Bucket Sort	        Ω(n+k)	θ(n+k)	    O(n^2)
  Radix Sort	        Ω(nk)	θ(nk)	    O(nk)

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


